# Introduction

### What is this?

Dahl Design Controller (DDC) is an arduino sketch that serves as a framework for creating a joystick controller. While it uses [MHeironimus's joystick library](https://github.com/MHeironimus/ArduinoJoystickLibrary) to communicate with the computer, DDC is responsible for all the algorithms and calculations between the physical button press and telling your computer what's up.

As a dedicated user of [SimHub](https://github.com/SHWotever/SimHub), I've earlier used SimHub's arduino platform to code my controllers. In many ways, it works the same way as DDC - allowing the user to choose which kind of buttons are connected to the arduino, and then providing a set of algorithms that in the end uses the joystick library to communicate to computer. SimHub has a great variety of supported switches, however, there is a compromise due to the limited memory on these microcontrollers and all the other stuff that has to be included in the SimHub arduino sketch. DDC is 100% dedicated to switch algorithms, and can offer alot more complex solutions. To get the most out of a DDC controller in SimHub, install my [plugin](https://github.com/andreasdahl1987/DahlDesignProperties).

**The main benefits of using DDC:**

* Supports all kinds of switches in matrix wiring (including funky-switches and 2/4-bit encoders), making it possible to wire a ridiculous amount of switches to a single MCU.
* Superb software debouncing for all switch/button presses.
* Complex switch functions and ability to change how switches work on the fly.
* Great dual clutch support with different modes for different preferences.
* 12 presets to quickly change several settings - set up your own presets for different cars and sims.
* Communication with SimHub, so you'll get all relevant info from your controller avaliable as properties in the dashboard editor.
* Full control over your own firmware.
* Always evolving, new switch support will be added on request.

**The main downsides of using DDC:**

* No LED support, but working on full SimHub LED integration.
* Limited to certain microcontrollers.&#x20;
* Does not support shift registers, this will be added when it has been fully tested (Q1 2023).
* A bit more to get your head around compared to using a setup UI as in FreeJoy and SimHub.&#x20;

### Can I use it?

There are hardware limitations to DDC. It requires you to use a microcontroller that is supported by the joystick library. When it comes to switches, encoders, hall sensors, potentiometers, etc., there are no limitations. If you can't find a function that makes your switch work - contact me and we'll improve on DDC together.

**Supported MCU:**

* Atmel 32U4 (Pro Micro, Leonardo, Micro, Yùn, etc.)
* Atmel SAM3X8E (Arduino Due or similar)
* Atmel SAMD21\* (Zero, MKR Zero, M0, SAMD21 Mini)
* Atmel SAMD51\* (Adafruit Metro M4)

\*These requires you to use a branch of the joystick library and roll back the code drivers for these boards.

I am looking into RP2040, not supported yet. There is an existing library for using this chip, but the API naming is different from the joystick library DDC uses - requires a re-write of the whole sketch. So it will be easier to rewrite the library's API naming. This will be done when there is a motivation to do so.

While the firmware is built around wiring switches in a matrix, **you don't have to**. Buttons and encoders wired to individual pins and ground can also be used, or a mix of button matrix and non-matrix switches.
